- 11/4 Essay: We have five reading/watching slots left on our schedule . I'm looking to replace one that's there now I think is on the weaker side (Thursday 11/18) and I want your help. What topic haven't we discussed (or will discuss) within the realm of data science and/or human development that you would like covered and discussed in class? Is there a particular video or reading you are aware of that you like or think is valuable that you want the rest of the class to see/read? Briefly explain your thoughts and provide a link, if applicable. I will read your responses later today. You have until 10:05.  
---
- I would like to see a video/article about dangers in data science. There's a lot that can go wrong because of issues like human bias or lack of foresight. I think going over these issues and how to combat them would be useful. It would also be useful to look at past data science projects that have failed or gone wrong, and what caused them to fail. Learning from these past mistakes is important to make sure they are avoided in the future. If someone in this class was going to create a startup, for example, that uses geospatial data, then it would be beneficial to see what issues there have been with doing this in the past, so they can avoid them in their own work. We've talked before about ethics in data science, but seeing real examples of how projects have failed could further that conversation, and I think that ethics are crucial to using data properly.
- Here are some example videos I found from quick searching:
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=D5Vx4foevxw 
- https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=4PPRh9ZunmI
